---
title: "NLP: EMNIST Handwritten Character Classification"
layout: post
date: 2018-09-29 12:10
image: /assets/images/project3.png
headerImage: true
tag:
- NLP
- EMNIST
- Classification
- Machine Learning
- Python
projects: true
category: project
externalLink: false
number: "6. "
---



- Using [EMNIST](https://www.nist.gov/itl/products-and-services/emnist-dataset) data sets to create a more robust version of handwritten character classification.
<hr class="rounded">

<h3>Abstract</h3>
<p>The MNIST database was a subset of a larger dataset known as the NIST Special Database 19 which contains digits, uppercase and lowercase handwritten letters. This project uses a variant of the full NIST dataset, which is called Extended MNIST(EMNIST), which follows the same conversion paradigm used to create the MNIST dataset. The result is a set of datasets that constitute a more challenging classification tasks involving letters and digits, and that shares the same image structure and parameters as the original MNIST task, allowing for direct compatibility with all existing classifiers and systems.</p>

<h3>Introduction</h3>

<p>Neural networks and deep learning currently provide the best solutions to many problems in
image recognition, speech recognition, and natural language processing.Some advancements
with the current data sets have led to create a more robust version of handwritten character
classification.This project uses a latest dataset. This project uses several Python packages
that come standard with the Anaconda Python distribution. The primary libraries that we’ll
be using are:</p>
<p>
- 1 NumPy(Provides a fast numerical array structure and helper fuctions)<br>
- 2 pandas: Provides a DataFrame structure to store data in memory and work with it easily and efficiently.<br>
- 3 scikit-learn: The essential Machine Learning package in Python.<br></p>